01. You have 8 balls, all are idential in looks, however one of them is few grams lighter.
    Using a balance scale, find the lighter ball in exactly 2 weighings.
02. You have a 5-liter and a 3-liter mug. Measure exactly 4 liters using these two mugs.
03. You need to cross a bridge at night in 15 minutes. Four people must cross with one flashlight:
    A takes 1 minute, B takes 2 minutes, C takes 5 minutes, and D takes 8 minutes. Only two people
    can cross at once, and they must share the flashlight. How can all four people cross in time?
04. A car has four tires and one spare tire. Each tire can travel a maximum of 20,000 kilometers.
    What is the maximum distance the car can travel if tires can be interchanged as needed?
05. You have 15 rupees. Each chocolate costs 1 rupee, and for every 3 chocolate wrappers, you can
    get one more chocolate. What is the maximum number of chocolates you can get?
06. A man falls into a 50-meter-deep well. He climbs 4 meters up each day but slips back 3 meters
    each night. How many days will it take for him to get out of the well?
07. You have a room with a lightbulb inside and three switches outside the room. You can flip the
    switches any way you want, but you can only enter the room once. How can you determine which
    switch controls the lightbulb?
08. How can you cut a round cake into 8 equal pieces using only 3 cuts?
09. You have 25 horses and want to find the 3 fastest ones. You can race only 5 horses at a time,
    and there’s no way to measure their actual speed. What is the minimum number of races required
    to determine the 3 fastest horses?
10. A prisoner is asked to make a statement. If his statement is true, he will be hanged; if it’s
    false, he will be shot. What statement can he make to stay alive?
11. How many times can you subtract the number 5 from 35?
12. Before the days of motor vehicles, a man rode into town on his horse and arrived on Sunday. He
    spent three days in town and left on Sunday. How is this possible?
13. A man drove his car all the way from Shimla to Delhi only to discover at the end of the trip that
    he had a flat tire from the very start. Yet, his car was unaffected. How is this possible?
14. There are three containers. One has only red marbles, one has only yellow marbles, and the third
    has both red and yellow marbles. All the containers are mislabeled. If you can take only one marble
    from one container to examine, how can you correctly label each container?
15. You have two ropes, each of which takes an hour to burn, but they burn at inconsistent rates. How
    can you measure 45 minutes using only these ropes?
16. You need to cross a river with a lion, a goat, and some grass. You can take only one across at a
    time. If left alone, the lion will eat the goat, and the goat will eat the grass. How can you get
    all three across the river safely?
17. Add arithmetic operators (plus, minus, multiplication, divide, percentage, modulo) to make the
    following expression true:
    3 1 3 6 = 8. You can use any parentheses you’d like.
18. 
