1. What is stride in video ?
    >A>
    The stride or pitch is the number of bytes from the first pixel of a line to the first pixel of
    the next line of video. In the simplest case, the stride equals the width multiplied by the bits
    per pixel, converted to bytes. For example, AR24 requires 32 BPP which is four bytes per pixel.
    A video buffer with an active area of 1920 x 1080 pixels therefore has a stride of 4 x 1920 = 7,680 bytes.
2. What is VSync (Vertical sync) in the context of video bus timing diagram?
    >A>
    The synchronization signal that marks the end of a frame and the beginning of the next frame
    vertically. It helps maintain proper timing and synchronization between the display and the
    video source
3. What is HSync (Horizontal sync) in the context of video bus timing diagram?
    >A>
    The synchronization signal that marks the end of a line and the beginning of the next line
    horizontally within a frame. It ensures proper scanning and synchronization of the video signal
4. What is VActive (Vertical active) in the context of video bus timing diagram?
    >A>
    The portion of a frame where the actual image or content is displayed vertically. It represents
    the height of the visible area on the screen where the video or graphics are actively displayed
5. What is HActive (Horizontal active) in the context of video bus timing diagram?
    >A>
    The portion of a line where the actual image or content is displayed horizontally. It represents
    the width of the visible area on the screen where the video or graphics are actively displayed.
6. What is VBlank (Vertical blank) in the context of video bus timing diagram?
    >A>
    The period between frames where no content is displayed vertically. It occurs after the VActive
    portion and provides time for the display to reset, perform any necessary adjustments, and
    prepare for the next frame
7. What is HBlank (Horizontal blank) in the context of video bus timing diagram?
    >A>
    The period between lines where no content is displayed horizontally. It occurs after the HActive
    portion within each line and allows time for the display to reset and prepare for the next line
8. Front Porch & Back Porch
    >A>
    - The back porch is the interval in a video signal that follows the active display area (HActive
      or VActive) and precedes the synchronization signal (HSync or VSync). It represents a blanking
      period where no video information is transmitted.
    - During the back porch, the display hardware
      typically performs tasks such as resetting or adjusting for the next line or frame.
    - The front porch is the interval in a video signal that precedes the active display area
      (HActive or VActive) and follows the synchronization signal (HSync or VSync). Similar to
      the back porch, it also represents a blanking period.
    - During the front porch, the display hardware prepares for the next line or frame, such as adjusting
      circuitry or stabilizing voltages.
9. What is I, P, B frames
10. Coding tree unit
11. Explain working of a encoder and decoder in simple terms(preferably with a diagram)?
   >A>
   Predict image based on previous image, create residual & motion vectors, gives residual to
   spatial model, which gives coefficient by transforming & quantization process of residual
   samples, motion vectors & quantized
   coefficient provide to entropy encoder to compress further
12. AVC vs HEVC. Which one is better. And why ?
   What are the main differences between HEVC and H.264? How does HEVC make it better?
   H.264: Macroblock block size?(16X16). Macroblock partition? (down to 4X4)
   HEVC: Coding Tree Unit(CTUs) size? (up to 64X64)
   >A>
   AVC:
   - H.264 (also called AVC, or Advanced Video Coding) is an industry standard
     for video compression that allows for the recording, compression, and
     distribution of digital video content.
   - It works by processing frames of video using a block-oriented,
     motion-compensation-based video compression standard. Those units are
     called macroblocks. Macroblocks typically consist of 16x16 pixel samples
     that can be subdivided into transform blocks, and may be further subdivided
     into what are known as prediction blocks. See the example below.
   - The H.264 algorithm can substantially lower bitrates better than previous
     standards, and is widely used by streaming internet sources like Vimeo,
     YouTube, iTunes, and more.
   HEVC:
   - H.265 is newer and more advanced than H.264 in several ways. H.265 (also
     called HEVC, or High Efficiency Video Coding) allows for further reduced
     file size, and therefore reduced required bandwidth, of your live video
     streams.
   - Unlike H.264 macroblocks, H.265 processes information in what’s called
     coding tree units (CTUs). Whereas macroblocks can span 4x4 to 16x16 block
     sizes, CTUs can process as many as 64x64 blocks, giving it the ability to
     compress information more efficiently.
   - In addition to the larger CTU sizes, HEVC also has better motion
     compensation and spatial prediction than AVC does. This means that HEVC
     requires more advanced hardware, to be able to compress the data.
     Fortunately, however, it also means that viewers with H.265 compatible
     devices will require less bandwidth and processing power to decompress that
     data and watch a high-quality stream.
13. How does the encoder select encoding block size either 4X4 or 32X32? Based on what? What is the
    outcome? Detailed areas or smooth areas.
14. AVC and HEVC stream packet
15. Can you draw a block diagram of HEVC or H.264 encoder? What is “Synthesis by Analysis” in video
    encoder? Why? How does it work?
16. Should I stream in H.264 or H.265?
   >A> Live streaming in H.265 will provide you with a higher-quality image while using less
       bandwidth. So, if possible, stream in H.265.
17. Does H.265 reduce quality?
   >A> No. It will give you higher quality when the network speed is lower.
18. Does H.265 use more CPU?
   >A> Yes. You'll use more CPU when you try to stream in H.265 from a computer.
19. Which is better for YouTube, H.264 or H.265?
   >A>
   If your encoder can stream in H.265, we recommend streaming with that. A third-party service like
   YouTube may transcode or process your video data differently from time to time depending on a
   variety factors, so streaming at the highest quality you can achieve on your own is always a safe
   bet.
20. Is H.264 high quality?
   >A> Yes.
   You can create high-quality streams with H.264 — just make sure you have the correct network
   speeds to do so (5-10mbps upload).
21. What do u mean by inter prediction & intra prediction?
   >A>
   Inter prediction --> prediction based on previously encoded frames
   Intra prediction --> prediction based on previously encoded macroblocks
22. What is entropy encoding (CABAC, CAVLC)
23. Which is the lossy part in encoding process.
24. What is constant bit-rate/constant quality encoding?
25. What is deblocking/loop filters.
26. Why do we need to reconstruct some frames in encoder?
27. What is Fast DCT. Is it lossy ? If yes explain.
28. Difference between key frame and I frame.
29. What do u mean by Gradual Decoder Refresh (GDR), how it is advantageous than inserting whole I frame?
30. What is GoP?
31. Open and closed GOPs.
32. Bitrate calculation
33. Difference between I frame and IDR frame ?
34. What is cpb ?
35. Relation between bitrate and cpb ?
36. Quality metrics
37. SPS, PPS, VPS, AUD in video stream
38. What do u mean by slices?
39. What is loop filter ?
40. Difference between display order & decoding order.
41. What do u mean by key frame(IDR frame - Instantaneous Decoder Refresh)? Why it is needed?
    >A> When decoder recives IDR, it discard all previous reference frames from DPB(Decoder picture
        buffer/reference picture buffer)
42. Type of video coding scalability one can achieve.
    >A> Temporal scalability - frame rate scalability
        Spatial scalability - resolution scalability
        Fidelity scalability - quality scalability
43. What are the most important steps in encoder to achieve high compression efficiency?
    (1) Motion compensation?
    (2) DCT transform?
    (3) Quantization?
    (4) Entropy encode? Which one is #1? Why? How does it work?
44. I-frame? Intra-frame prediction.
    P-frame? Inter-frame prediction.
    How does the encoder select I-frame or P-frame prediction?
    Based on what?
        Scene switching?
        Packet lost?
        IDR?
        Prediction residual?
45. What is the difference between I-frame and IDR-frame? How often do they occur?
    IDR-frame: How does it work? The reference frame buffer gets cleared out in encoder or in decoder or in both?
46. Motion estimation & compensation? Processing block size?
    Macroblock and microblock-partition.
    How to decide the best motion estimation/compensation block?
        Minimize the prediction residual.
    What are the outputs?
        Prediction residual frame and the motion vector.
38. How does the encoder control the tradeoff between the output bitrate (lower for better
    compression efficiency) and the video quality?
    By adjusting what parameter(s)? Rate-distortion performance?
39. “In-loop De-blocking filter” in video encoder? Why is it needed?
    Block based encoding has blocking or ringing distortion. How does it work?
        Smooths the block edges by Extrapolation.
    Which region of a frame/picture is this De-blocking filter applied to?
        Microblock boundaries.
    Why is it called “In-loop”?
        It is placed inside the encoding and decoding loops.
40. “Slices” in H.264 & HEVC? “Tiles” in HEVC? Why? What purpose?
    Independent decoding without reference to any previous slices.
    (1) Error resilience. Re-sync decoder with encoder in case of packet loss.
    (2) Parallel encoding/decoding in multi-cores CPU and GPU.
